# Introduction to Client-Side Scripting

Websites and web applications provide multiple types of functionality. Most
often this functionality is required to be coded/programmed by a developer, and
will allow the site or app to perform more advanced functionality. This type of
code exists in two basic forms, Client-Side and Server-Side.

Client-Side scripting as the name relates, is the process of writing code or
scripts for websites and web apps which will only run when rendered on the
client i.e. the user's browser. The user's web browser, like Safari, Chrome,
Firefox and Internet Explorer will interpret the code and provide the
functionality the developer has coded. ​The processing takes place on the user's
computer. ​This functionality can be executed when the load of the web page is
complete, or during an event like a click or any other interaction made by the
user. Client-Side scripts can be embedded into common web files, like HTML, PHP
or ASP, but they can also exists as separate files which are linked to the
website or application.

Conversely code can be run on the Server-Side of the system, meaning a request
is made to the web server and the web server executes the code prior to being
loaded, this Server-Side code will then be converted into a format that the
user's web browser can understand.

Client-Side scripting allows web designers and developers to add advanced
functionality to a website or web app that HTML and other base web languages
don't permit.

JavaScript has become the preferred language for Client-Side development as it
is present in all browsers. With JavaScript we can manipulate the website and
introduce extended functionality, change and replace data, animate and add
effects, all of this and more to provide engaging functionality for the user.
