# The Developer Environment

Designers and developers use a variety of software packages, commonly referred
to as IDEs (Integrated Development Environment), these will usually consist of
code editor, compiler, debugger and GUI (Graphic User Interface). Web designers
often opt to use more simplified development tools like, Adobe Brackets,
Sublime Text or Dreamweaver. Web developers will often use larger more complex
IDEs like Visual Studio and Eclipse. These larger more complex IDEs allow for
both Client-Side and Server-Side scripting, while the streamlined and simpler
IDEs focus on design and Client-Side, however all programming languages can be
written in an application as simple as Notepad (PC) or Text Editor (Mac).

Along with the long list of IDEs and software packages, is the internet
browsers, previously some have been mentioned, but the most commonly used
browsers are Safari, Chrome, Firefox, Opera and Internet Explorer
(Edge as of late 2015). Browsers allow designers and developers to test their
websites locally and inspect them for any issues or bugs that are occurring. All
modern browsers provide tools to inspect HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files, thus
allowing the designer/developer to see the relationship between the different
languages and how they are affecting the site. Amongst the many tools browsers
provide, is the capacity to set breakpoints in the Client-Side scripts,
breakpoints are stopping points, this allows the developer to see what is
happening in the code at custom set points.

For the purposes of learning JavaScript and JQuery we recommend the use of
Adobe Brackets, Sublime Text or Dreamweaver. Each provides slightly different
features, like "Linting" or "Hinting", code highlighting and formatting however
once you are comfortable with code, you should be able to use any IDE to write
your code successfully.
